Update pelican client documentation (#966)
PelicanPlatform/pelican: docs/pages/client_usage.mdx

# Using The Pelican Client
It is recommended that you start with our [Quick Start Guide](./user-quickstart-guide.mdx) where you can learn the basics of Pelican client commands and learn some useful terminology.

## Before Starting

### Assumptions

Before using the Pelican client to interact with objects from your federation, this guide makes several assumptions:

- You are on a computer where you have access to a terminal. The Pelican client is a command line tool.
- You've already installed the version of Pelican appropriate for your system, and Pelican is accessible via your path. To test this on Linux, you can run
```bash
which pelican
```

> which should output a path to the executable. If there is no output to this command, refer to the [Pelican installation docs](./install.mdx) to acquire a working installation.

Reviewer: Add two spaces to the front of each line, so that the content is formatted as contents of the line item.

(suggestion markdown doesn't render properly..)

- You are roughly familiar with Pelican client commands and terminology as demonstrated with the [Getting Started: Accessing Data](./getting_started_access_data.mdx) page.

### Useful Terminology

> **Notes on Federations:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note on Federations:**
```

All object paths in a federation begin with a preceding `/`, and no relative paths are allowed. Here is the example URL we used in the [Getting Started: Accessing Data](./getting_started_access_data.mdx) page:
```console
/ospool/uc-shared/public/OSG-Staff/validation/test.txt
```
This is the full object path that we will be using in examples below.

**Tokens and JWT:**
Some namespace prefixes are public, like `/ospool/uc-shared/public`, while others are protected (i.e. they require authorization). Objects in public namespaces can be downloaded by anybody, but downloading objects from protected namespaces requires you prove to the origin supporting that namespace that you are allowed to access the object. In Pelican, this is done using signed JSON Web Tokens, or *JWT*s for short. In many cases, these tokens can be generated automatically.

## The Different Pelican URL Schemes

> When running client commands with a request URL, there are three different URL schemes a user can use: `pelican` and `osdf`. This page uses examples with the `pelican://` URL scheme. Below is a description of the three URL schemes and what to expect when they are used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running client commands with a request URL, there are two different URL schemes a user can use: `pelican` and `osdf`. This page uses examples with the `pelican://` URL scheme. Below is a description of the two URL schemes and what to expect when they are used:
```

### The `pelican://` URL Scheme:

> URLs that being with `pelican://` allow you to interact with objects from any federation simply by knowing the hostname of the federation's discovery url and the name of that object in that federation. These URLs take the form:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
URLs that begin with `pelican://` allow you to interact with objects from any federation simply by knowing the hostname of the federation's discovery URL and the name of that object in that federation. These URLs take the form:
```

```bash
pelican://<federation discovery URL>/<path/to/object>
```
When a Pelican client encounters a Pelican URL, it uses the hostname in the federation discovery portion of the URL to find other services in the specified federation that will help the client discover the object's location

>**Note**: Federation discovery URLs can also be specified with the `-f` flag rather than the hostname. Just be sure not to include the URL in both the `-f` flag and in the hostname of the object path, as this will lead to errors.

>**Note:** Federation discovery URLs cannot contain a path component (e.g. https://my-federation.com/path/component). Clients that encounter a discovery URL with a path component will incorrectly assume the path is part of the namespace prefix.

### The `osdf:///` URL Scheme:

> When using the `osdf:///` scheme, pelican will load in the federation metadata automatically with the Open Science Data Federation (OSDF)  defaults. This scheme should only be used if your federation or data can be accessed through the OSDF. When using this scheme, you should not specify the federation URL at all, as Pelican will handle this automatically. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the `osdf:///` scheme, Pelican will load in the federation metadata automatically using the defaults for accessing the Open Science Data Federation (OSDF). This scheme should only be used if your data can be accessed through the OSDF. When using this scheme, you should not specify the federation URL at all, as Pelican will handle this automatically. For example:
```

```bash
pelican object get osdf:///<namespace-prefix></path/to/file> <local/path/to/file>
```

> >This scheme has three slashes (`///`) after the `osdf` because the hostname is left empty to be automatically populated therefore, just start the URL with the namespace prefix. Pelican also supports the `osdf://` scheme (with two slashes) in case the user forgets to pass the third slash, but this is not recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>This scheme has three slashes (`///`) after the `osdf` because the hostname is left empty to be automatically populated therefore, just start the URL with the namespace prefix. Pelican currently recognizes the `osdf://` scheme (with two slashes) in case the user forgets to pass the third slash, but this is not recommended.
```

## Get a Public Object from your Federation

To use the pelican client to get public objects from a federation, use Pelican's `object get` sub-command

### Getting an Object Using the pelican:// URL Scheme:
To use the `pelican://` URL scheme, you need to specify the federation URL within the request URL. To do this, you would format the `object get` command like so:
```bash
pelican object get pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/file> <local/path/to/file>
```

> You can try this yourself by getting the public file that was mentioned earlier from the OSDF. Using the `object get` sub command, and indicating to pelican that you're pulling from the OSDF:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can try this yourself by getting the public file that was mentioned earlier from the OSDF. Using the `object get` sub command, and providing the federation URL for the OSDF:
```

This prevents the need to reinitialize the authorization for each transfer.
You will be asked for this password whenever a new session is started.
Please provide a new password to encrypt the local OSDF client configuration file:
```
Enter in a password and press `enter` to continue and you should see a response like so:
```bash
To approve credentials for this operation, please navigate to the following URL and approve the request:

<https://some/link/here>
```
Pelican will display a URL in your terminal and indicate that you should visit the URL in your browser. After copying/pasting the URL to your browser, follow all the instructions there for logging in with CILogon. Once everything is successful, you should see a page like this:

<ExportedImage src={"/pelican/cilogon.png"} alt={"Screenshot of CILogon success page"} />

Finally, if the login is successful, Pelican will automatically fetch the token from the CILogon service and continue with the download.

### For Issuers Without CILogon Support

Some origins do not support authentication though CILogon. In this case, users must supply their own JWT that's signed by the origin.

> > We are working hard to document how to generate a token from protected origins, before it’s ready. If you have any questions or need help getting a token from the origin, please email us at [help@pelicanplatform.com](mailto:help@pelicanplatform.com) or open a discussion on our [GitHub discussions page](https://github.com/PelicanPlatform/pelican/discussions) and we are happy to assist you.

Reviewer: "before it's ready" - this phrase feels odd to me. Do you mean "but it's not currently ready"? I'm not quite sure what is trying to be communicated here.

Contact your federation administrator to get a token for downloading a protected object. For OSDF users, contact [support@osg-htc.org](mailto:support@osg-htc.org) for help.

Once you have the token, copy and paste it into a file on your machine, and pass the path to the file containing the token to the Pelican client with `-t` flag.
```bash
# Pass the path to the file containing the token using -t flag
pelican object get pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/file> </local/path/to/file> -t </path/to/token/file>
```

For example, if a token is saved in a file named `my-token`, it can be used to get the object `/ospool/PROTECTED/auth-test.txt` by running:
```bash
# Get the object with the path to token file provided via -t flag
$ pelican object get -f https://osg-htc.org /ospool/PROTECTED/auth-test.txt downloaded-auth-test.txt -t my-token
```

## PUT an object to Your Federation

> Another powerful Pelican client command is the `pelican object put` command. This command does a simple PUT request to add your object to your federation. Putting files into a federation always requires a token therefore, for the example, we will need a token to perform these requests. Here is how you can use `pelican object put`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another powerful Pelican client command is the `pelican object put` command. This command does a simple PUT request to add your object to your federation. Putting files into a federation always requires a token therefore, for the example, we will need a token to perform these requests (see the [previous section](#get-a-protected-object-from-your-federation) for more information). Here is how you can use `pelican object put`:
```

```bash
pelican object put <path/to/local/file> pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/file> -t </path/to/token/file>
```
> **Note:** you can also specify the federation url here with the `-f` flag, just be sure not to include it in the request URL as the host name if you decide to do so.

## Pelican Object Copy

> As well with Pelican's `object get` and `object put` commands, there is also an older command called `pelican object copy`. This functions the same as the `pelican object get/put` except that it works for both gets and puts. For example, to do an `object get`:

Reviewer: Do you recommend that users not use the `copy` command? If so, I suggest adding such a statement here.

```bash
pelican object copy pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/file> <local/path/to/file>
```
and to do an `object put`:

```bash
pelican object copy <path/to/local/file> pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/destination> -t </path/to/token/file>
```

## Utilizing Queries with your URL

> The Pelican client has the ability to select various amount of queries specified in the remote path to an object. The queries the current Pelican client accepts are: ?pack, ?recursive, and ?directread

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Pelican client has the ability to select various amount of queries specified in the remote path to an object. The queries the current Pelican client accepts are: `?pack`, `?recursive`, and `?directread`.
```

```bash
pelican object get pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/file/file.tar.gz>?pack=tar.gz <local/path/to/file>
```
To upload, specify a directory and Pelican will compress it for you:
```bash
pelican object put <local/path/to/directory> pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/directory.tar.gz>?pack=tar.gz
```

Pelican accepts the following values for the `pack` query:
- `pack=auto`:
	- For downloading, auto-detect the file format and unpack (throws error if it is not any detected format).
	- For uploading, compress using `.tar.xz`.
- `pack=tar`, `pack=tar.gz`, `pack=tar.xz`, `pack=zip` :
	- For downloading, throws an error if the specified object is not in the specified format (`tar`, `tar.gz`, `tar.xz`, `zip`, respectively).
	- For uploading, create the object in the specified format (`tar`, `tar.gz`, `tar.xz`, `zip`, respectively).

### Recurisve Downloads and Uploads with the ?recursive Query

> The ?recursive query can be utilized if the desired remote object is a directory. When this query is enabled, it indicates to Pelican that all sub paths at the level of the provided namespace should be copied recursively. To use this query, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `?recursive` query can be utilized if the desired remote object is a directory. When this query is enabled, it indicates to Pelican that all sub paths at the level of the provided namespace should be copied recursively. To use this query, run:
```

```bash
pelican object get pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/directory>?recursive <local/path/to/file>
```

To upload, you can run something similar but with an `object put`:
```bash
pelican object put <local/path/to/directory> pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/directory>?recursive
```

>**Note:** This query functions the same as specifying the `-r` flag described below.

### Bypass Caches for Downloads with the ?directread Query

> The ?directread query is used if you would like to download an object without utilizing a cache. This way, the object will come directly from the origin each time and never use the cache. To use this query, you can run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `?directread` query is used if you would like to download an object without utilizing a cache. This way, the object will come directly from the origin each time and never use the cache. To use this query, you can run:
```

```bash
pelican object get pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/file>?directread <local/path/to/file>
```
This query does not make sense to use for uploads since uploads go directly to the origin anyway. If you use this query by mistake, you should not run into any issues and your upload will function as normal.

> > **Note about Queries:** the ?recursive and the ?directread queries do **not** require any sort of values assigned to them (e.g. pelican://some/object?recursive=true). If a value is assigned to these queries, that value will be ignored and Pelican will act as if there was no value assigned to that query (e.g. pelican://some/object?recursive=false acts the same as pelican://some/object?recursive meaning the recursive query **will** be set even if the value is set to false).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Note about Queries
The `?recursive` and the `?directread` queries do **not** require any sort of values assigned to them (e.g., `pelican://some/object?recursive=true`). If a value is assigned to these queries, that value will be ignored and Pelican will act as if there was no value assigned to that query (e.g. `pelican://some/object?recursive=false` acts the same as `pelican://some/object?recursive` meaning the recursive query **will** be set even if the value is set to false).
```

- **--caches:** Takes the path to a JSON file containing a list of caches. Similar to the `-c` flag, Pelican will attempt to use only these caches in the order they are listed.
- **-h or --help:** Gives additional information on how to use the command as well as lists these flags with short descriptions for the `object copy` command.
- **--methods:** Takes a comma seperated list of methods to try for downloads/uploads, the default is just http.
- **-r or --recursive:** Takes no argument and indicates to Pelican that all sub paths at the level of the provided namespace should be copied recursively. This option is only supported if the origin supports the WebDav protocol.
- **-t or --token:** Takes a path to a file containing a signed JWT, and is used to download protected objects.

## Aliases of The Pelican Binary

The Pelican binary can change its behavior depending on what it is named. This feature serves two purposes; it allows Pelican to use a few convenient default settings in the case that the federation being interacted with is the OSDF, and it allows Pelican to run in legacy `stashcp` and `stash_plugin` modes.

> ### Prefixing The Binary With OSDF

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prefixing The Binary Name With `osdf`
```

When the name of the Pelican binary begins with `osdf`, Pelican will assume that all objects are coming from the OSDF which allows it to make several assumptions. The most immediate effect for users is that you no longer need to specify a federation URL, ONLY with no URL scheme or an `osdf:///` URL scheme. The command to download a public file from above can then be simplified to:

```bash
osdf object copy /ospool/uc-shared/public/OSG-Staff/validation/test.txt downloaded-testfile.txt
```
>**Note:** When using client commands with the OSDF binary, be careful when using it with `pelican://` URL schemes. When using the `pelican://` URL scheme, you are still required to provide a federation URL no matter what binary name you are using.

### Naming The Binary `stashcp` Or `stash_plugin`

> The Pelican Project grew out of a command line tool called `stashcp` with an associated HTCondor plugin called `stash_plugin`, which were also used for interacting with objects in the OSDF. To support these legacy tools, Pelican has been built to behave similarly as `stashcp` and `stash_plugin` did whenever the Pelican binary is renamed to match the names of these tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Pelican Platform grew out of a command line tool called `stashcp` with an associated HTCondor plugin called `stash_plugin`, which were also used for interacting with objects in the OSDF. To support these legacy tools, Pelican has been built to behave similarly as `stashcp` and `stash_plugin` did whenever the Pelican binary is renamed to match the names of these tools.
```

# Using The Pelican Client
It is recommended that you start with our [Quick Start Guide](./user-quickstart-guide.mdx) where you can learn the basics of Pelican client commands and learn some useful terminology.

## Before Starting

### Assumptions

Before using the Pelican client to interact with objects from your federation, this guide makes several assumptions:

- You are on a computer where you have access to a terminal. The Pelican client is a command line tool.
- You've already installed the version of Pelican appropriate for your system, and Pelican is accessible via your path. To test this on Linux, you can run
```bash
which pelican
```
which should output a path to the executable. If there is no output to this command, refer to the [Pelican installation docs](./install.mdx) to acquire a working installation.
- You are roughly familiar with Pelican client commands and terminology as demonstrated with the [Quick Start Guide](./user-quickstart-guide.mdx)

### Useful Terminology

**Notes on Federations:**
Below are some notes on federations on top of their terminology. Here is the example URL we used previously:

> ```console

Reviewer 2: Previously where? Not in this document. The quick start guide? If so, it should be something like "previously in the quick start guide" or something similar.

### The `pelican://` URL Scheme:
When using the `pelican://` scheme, pelican does not know what federation to communicate with and therefore, the user must specify their federation URL either as the host-name in the URL itself or within the `-f` flag. The examples below show how you can format your request URLs in both of these ways.

>**Note:** When you set a federation discovery URL within a `pelican://` URL, within configuration files, or with the `-f` flag, do not expect the client to work if the discovery URL contains a path (e.g. `osg-htc.org/PathToMyFederation`). The client will assume that the path provided is the namespace prefix for the object which will end in failure.

### The` osdf:///` URL Scheme:
When using the `osdf:///` scheme, pelican will load in the federation metadata automatically with the Open Science Data Federation (OSDF)  defaults. This scheme should only be used if your federation or data can be accessed through the OSDF. When using this scheme, you should not specify the federation URL at all, as Pelican will handle this automatically. For example:
```bash
pelican object get osdf:///<namespace-prefix></path/to/file> <local/path/to/file>
```

> >This scheme has three slashes (`///`) after the `osdf` because the hostname is left empty to be automatically populated therefore, just start the URL with the namespace prefix. Pelican also supports the `osdf://` scheme (with two slashes) in case the user forgets to pass the third slash, but this is not recommended.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>This scheme has three slashes (`///`) after the `osdf` because the hostname is left empty to be automatically populated. Therefore, just start the URL with the namespace prefix. Pelican also supports the `osdf://` scheme (with two slashes) in case the user forgets to pass the third slash, but this is not recommended.
```

### The `stash:///` URL Scheme:
This URL scheme comes from legacy code called `stashcp` that Pelican was built off of and is still accepted for backwards compatibility. This URL scheme functions identically to the `osdf:///` URL scheme, loading in OSDF defaults. Here is an example:
```bash

> pelican object get stash:///<namespace-prefix></path/to/file> <local/path/to/file>

Reviewer 2: This is a follow up to Justin's earlier comment about namespace-prefix. This is mostly a placeholder to remind you to do the change in this file in multiple locations.

## The Different Pelican URL Schemes
When running client commands with a request URL, there are three different URL schemes a user can use: `pelican`, `osdf`, and `stash`. This page uses examples with the `pelican://` URL scheme. Below is a description of the three URL schemes and what to expect when they are used:

### The `pelican://` URL Scheme:
When using the `pelican://` scheme, pelican does not know what federation to communicate with and therefore, the user must specify their federation URL either as the host-name in the URL itself or within the `-f` flag. The examples below show how you can format your request URLs in both of these ways.

### The` osdf:///` URL Scheme:
When using the `osdf:///` scheme, pelican will load in the federation metadata automatically with the Open Science Data Federation (OSDF)  defaults. This scheme should only be used if your federation or data can be accessed through the OSDF. When using this scheme, you should not specify the federation URL at all, as Pelican will handle this automatically. For example:
```bash
pelican object get osdf:///<namespace-prefix></path/to/file> <local/path/to/file>
```

> This scheme has three slashes (`///`) after the `osdf` because the hostname is left empty to be automatically populated therefore, just start the URL with the namespace prefix. Pelican also supports the `osdf://` scheme (with two slashes) in case the user forgets to pass the third slash, but this is not recommended.

Author: Nope! That's why this sentence is there: `Pelican also supports the `osdf://` scheme (with two slashes) in case the user forgets to pass the third slash, but this is not recommended.`

We still allow users to make the mistake of having only two `//` after osdf: and everything should work fine

- You are roughly familiar with Pelican client commands and terminology as demonstrated with the [Getting Started: Accessing Data](./getting_started_access_data.mdx) page.

### Useful Terminology

**Notes on Federations:**
Below are some notes on federations on top of their terminology. Here is the example URL we used in the [Getting Started: Accessing Data](./getting_started_access_data.mdx) page:
```console
/ospool/uc-shared/public/OSG-Staff/validation/test.txt
```
**Note:** All object paths in a federation begin with a preceding `/`, and no relative paths are allowed.

**Tokens and JWT:**
Some namespace prefixes are public, like `/ospool/uc-shared/public`, while others are protected (i.e. they require authorization). Objects in public namespaces can be downloaded by anybody, but downloading objects from protected namespaces requires you prove to the origin supporting that namespace that you are allowed to access the object. In Pelican, this is done using signed JSON Web Tokens, or *JWT*s for short. In many cases, these tokens can be generated automatically.

## The Different Pelican URL Schemes

> When running client commands with a request URL, there are three different URL schemes a user can use: `pelican`, `osdf`, and `stash`. This page uses examples with the `pelican://` URL scheme. Below is a description of the three URL schemes and what to expect when they are used:

Author: No I agree, since we are working out the old 'stash' we should probably not document it

### The `pelican://` URL Scheme:

> When using the `pelican://` scheme, pelican does not know what federation to communicate with and therefore, the user must specify their federation URL either as the host-name in the URL itself or within the `-f` flag. The examples below show how you can format your request URLs in both of these ways.

Reviewer 3: This is our first chance to introduce the powerful concept of `pelican://` urls. I think we should avoid mentioning the `-f` flag here, because if the user is using a `pelican://` url, we want them to be including the federation hostname.

This may not be the place to do so, but we should also explain what protocol this scheme entails. Something like:

"URLs that begin with `pelican://` allow you to interact with objects from any federation simply by knowing the hostname of the federation's discovery url and the name of the object in that federation. These URLs take the form 
```
pelican://<fed discovery URL>/<path to object>
```
When a Pelican client encounters a Pelican URL, it uses the hostname in the federation discovery portion of the URL to find other services in the specified federation that will help the client discover the object's location."

>**Note:** When you set a federation discovery URL within a `pelican://` URL, within configuration files, or with the `-f` flag, do not expect the client to work if the discovery URL contains a path (e.g. `osg-htc.org/PathToMyFederation`). The client will assume that the path provided is the namespace prefix for the object which will end in failure.

### The `osdf:///` URL Scheme:
When using the `osdf:///` scheme, pelican will load in the federation metadata automatically with the Open Science Data Federation (OSDF)  defaults. This scheme should only be used if your federation or data can be accessed through the OSDF. When using this scheme, you should not specify the federation URL at all, as Pelican will handle this automatically. For example:
```bash
pelican object get osdf:///<namespace-prefix></path/to/file> <local/path/to/file>
```
>This scheme has three slashes (`///`) after the `osdf` because the hostname is left empty to be automatically populated therefore, just start the URL with the namespace prefix. Pelican also supports the `osdf://` scheme (with two slashes) in case the user forgets to pass the third slash, but this is not recommended.

> ### The `stash:///` URL Scheme:

Reviewer 3: Unless anyone else objects, let's get rid of documenting stash-protocol URLs.

This URL scheme comes from legacy code called `stashcp` that Pelican was built off of and is still accepted for backwards compatibility. This URL scheme functions identically to the `osdf:///` URL scheme, loading in OSDF defaults. Here is an example:
```bash
pelican object get stash:///<namespace-prefix></path/to/file> <local/path/to/file>
```

## Get a Public Object from your Federation

To use the pelican client to get public objects from a federation, use Pelican's `object get` sub-command

### Getting an Object Using the pelican:// URL Scheme:
To use the `pelican://` URL scheme, you need to specify the federation URL within the request URL. To do this, you would format the `object get` command like so:
```bash
pelican object get pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/file> <local/path/to/file>
```
Or, you can use the `-f` flag with the command, and format the request URL like so:
```bash

> pelican object get -f <federation-url> pelican://</namespace-prefix></path/to/file> </local/path/to/file>

Reviewer 3: I don't like the idea of presenting this as an option to users. Can we say you can either do:
```

pelican object get -f <fed url> /namespace/prefix/object /local/path/to/file
```

OR

```
pelican object get pelican://<fed url>/namespace/prefix/object /local/path/to/file
```

To the extent possible, let's try to make sure users think of pelican-schemed URLs as a way to provide the federation discovery URL and object name in a single vessel, not to split things up the confusing way we do with `osdf:///`

Author: I think I am just going to remove the examples with `-f` and just leave it as a note. I was not too fond of having it either, takes up space and can be confusing/not useful to mention

```
You can try this yourself by getting the public file that was mentioned earlier from the OSDF. Using the `object get` sub command, and indicating to pelican that you're pulling from the OSDF:

```bash
pelican object get pelican://osg-htc.org/ospool/uc-shared/public/OSG-Staff/validation/test.txt downloaded-testfile.txt
```
Or:
```bash
pelican object get -f https://osg-htc.org pelican:///ospool/uc-shared/public/OSG-Staff/validation/test.txt downloaded-testfile.txt
```

This command will download the object `/OSG-Staff/validation/test.txt` from the OSDF's `/ospool/uc-shared/public/` namespace and save it in your local directory with the name `downloaded-testfile.txt`.

More specifically, it breaks into these components:
- Federation URL: `osg-htc.org`
- Namespace: `/ospool/uc-shared/public`
- Object name: `/OSG-Staff/validation/test.txt`
- Destination: `downloaded-testfile.txt`

## Get A Protected Object From Your Federation

> Protected namespaces require that a Pelican client prove it is allowed to access objects from the namespace before the object can be downloaded. In many cases, Pelican clients can do this automatically by initiating an OpenID-Connect (OIDC) flow that uses an external log-in service (such as [CILogon](https://www.cilogon.org)) through your browser. In other cases, a token must be provided to the Pelican client manually.

Reviewer 3: It's not quite right to say that Pelican clients can do this automatically. Let's say "In many cases, Pelican clients can guide users through the process of acquiring a token by initiating an OpenID-Connect (OIDC) flow that ...". As written, it sounds like the client will automagically show up with a token on its own, but the truth is the user has to be around to enter authentication information.

### For Issuers That Support CILogon Code Flow

> Some origins support authentication with CILogon's OIDC client. In these cases, the Pelican client is capable of handling authentication with the origin automatically, once you logged in via CILogon. To download protected objects from origins that support CILogon, run the same command as for downloading a public object:

Reviewer 3: Same comments about tidying up the language around the "automatically" phrasing.

Contact your federation administrator to get a token for downloading a protected object. For OSDF users, contact [support@osg-htc.org](mailto:support@osg-htc.org) for help.

Once you have the token, copy and paste it into a file on your machine, and pass the path to the file containing the token to the Pelican client with `-t` flag.
```bash
# Pass the path to the file containing the token using -t flag
pelican object get pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/file> </local/path/to/file> -t </path/to/token/file>
```

For example, if a token is saved in a file named `my-token`, it can be used to get the object `/ospool/PROTECTED/auth-test.txt` by running:
```bash
# Get the object with the path to token file provided via -t flag
$ pelican object get -f https://osg-htc.org /ospool/PROTECTED/auth-test.txt downloaded-auth-test.txt -t my-token
```

## PUT an object to Your Federation

> Another powerful Pelican client command is the `pelican object put` command. This command does a simple PUT request to add your object to your federation. Since the vast majority of federations will not allow public writes, we will assume for the example that we will need a token to perform these requests. Here is how you can use `pelican object put`:

Reviewer 3: Public writes actually aren't possible in Pelican, so we can just say "Putting files into a federation requires a token"

```bash
pelican object put <path/to/local/file> pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/file> -t </path/to/token/file>
```
> **Note:** you can also specify the federation url here with the `-f` flag, just be sure not to include it in the request URL as the host name if you decide to do so.

## Pelican Object Copy
As well with Pelican's `object get` and `object put` commands, there is also an older command called `pelican object copy`. This functions the same as the `pelican object get/put` except that it works for both gets and puts. For example, to do an `object get`:
```bash
pelican object copy pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/file> <local/path/to/file>
```
and to do an `object put`:

```bash
pelican object copy <path/to/local/file> pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/destination> -t </path/to/token/file>
```

## Utilizing Queries with your URL
The Pelican client has the ability to select various amount of queries specified in the remote path to an object. The queries the current Pelican client accepts are: ?pack, ?recursive, and ?directread

> ### ?pack Query

Reviewer 3: Instead of beginning a header with the query, let's say something about what the section tells you how to do. For this one, maybe `Packing Objects with the ?pack Query`. The next header could be `Recursive Downloads with the ?recursive Query`

The Pelican client has the ability to automatically compress/unpack tarballs when uploading and downloading to and from a federation. The user just needs to supply their request URL with a query. For example, to automatically unpack a tarball on downloading, run:
```bash
pelican object get pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/file/file.tar.gz>?pack=tar.gz <local/path/to/file>
```
To upload, specify a directory and Pelican will compress it for you:
```bash
pelican object put <local/path/to/directory> pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/directory.tar.gz>?pack=tar.gz
```

Pelican accepts the following values for the `pack` query:
- `pack=auto`:
	- For downloading, auto-detect the file format and unpack (throws error if it is not any detected format).
	- For uploading, compress using `.tar.xz`.
- `pack=tar`, `pack=tar.gz`, `pack=tar.xz`, `pack=zip` :
	- For downloading, throws an error if the specified object is not in the specified format (`tar`, `tar.gz`, `tar.xz`, `zip`, respectively).
	- For uploading, create the object in the specified format (`tar`, `tar.gz`, `tar.xz`, `zip`, respectively).

### ?recursive Query

> The ?recursive query can be utilized if the desired remote object is a directory. When this query is enabled, Pelican will recursively download all files and subdirectories within the specified directory in the URL. To use this query, run:

Reviewer 3: I'm conflicted here, because we should be saying "objects/namespace paths" and not "files/directories", but I don't know that `?recursive` works for anything _other_ than posix backends right now. Maybe we can say something like "When this query is enabled, Pelican will recursively try to download everything beneath the specified path." Of course, that's not entirely true either...

EDIT:
I read a bit further to the point where you describe the behavior of the `-r` flag in the client, and I like the way you've phrased things there when you say "... indicates to Pelican that all sub paths at the level of the provided namespace should be copied recursively."

```bash
pelican object get pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/directory>?recursive <local/path/to/file>
```

To upload, you can run something similar but with an `object put`:
```bash
pelican object put <local/path/to/directory> pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/directory>?recursive
```

>**Note:** This query functions the same as specifying the `-r` flag described below.

### ?directread Query
The ?directread query is used if you would like to download an object without utilizing a cache. This way, the object will come directly from the origin each time and never use the cache. To use this query, you can run:
```bash
pelican object get pelican://<federation-url></namespace-prefix></path/to/file>?directread <local/path/to/file>
```
This query does not make sense to use for uploads since uploads go directly to the origin anyway. If you use this query by mistake, you should not run into any issues and your upload will function as normal.

> > **Note about Queries:** the ?recursive and the ?directread queries do **not** require any sort of values assigned to them (i.e. pelican://some/object?recursive=true). If a value is assigned to these queries, that value will be ignored and Pelican will act as if there was no value assigned to that query (i.e. pelican://some/object?recursive=false acts the same as pelican://some/object?recursive meaning the recursive query **will** be set even if the value is set to false).

Reviewer 3: These should be `e.g.`

## Additional Flags

> The Pelican client support a variety of command line flags that modify the client's behavior:

Reviewer 3: `support --> supports`

- **-r or --recursive:** Takes no argument and indicates to Pelican that all sub paths at the level of the provided namespace should be copied recursively. This option is only supported if the origin supports the WebDav protocol.
- **-t or --token:** Takes a path to a file containing a signed JWT, and is used to download protected objects.

## Aliases of The Pelican Binary

The Pelican binary can change its behavior depending on what it is named. This feature serves two purposes; it allows Pelican to use a few convenient default settings in the case that the federation being interacted with is the OSDF, and it allows Pelican to run in legacy `stashcp` and `stash_plugin` modes.

### Prefixing The Binary With OSDF

When the name of the Pelican binary begins with `osdf`, Pelican will assume that all objects are coming from the OSDF which allows it to make several assumptions. The most immediate effect for users is that you no longer need to specify a federation URL, ONLY with no URL scheme, `osdf:///`, or `stash:///` URL schemes. The command to download a public file from above can then be simplified to:

```bash

> osdf object copy osdf:///ospool/uc-shared/public/OSG-Staff/validation/test.txt downloaded-testfile.txt

Reviewer 3: This can be simplified further to `osdf object copy /ospool/uc-shared/public/OSG-Staff/validation/test.txt downloaded-testfile.txt`, can't it? The `osdf://` scheme does the same thing when using the regular pelican client, so there's not a whole lot of benefit to naming the binary `osdf` unless we tell the user they can stop using ANY url-scheme stuff.

Author: You are correct, having no scheme will do the same as having an `osdf://` scheme. I'll leave the example scheme blank to show users it can be simplified even further.
